

This model is from the article:  
**A multi-tissue type genome-scale metabolic network for analysis of whole-body systems physiology.**   
Bordbar A, Feist AM, Usaite-Black R, Woodcock J, Palsson BO, Famili I. _BMC
Syst Biol._ 2011 Oct 31;5(1):180.
[22041191](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22041191) ,  
**Abstract:**   
ABSTRACT: BACKGROUND: Genome-scale metabolic reconstructions provide a
biologically meaningful mechanis tic basis for the genotype-phenotype
relationship. The global human metabolic net work, termed Recon 1, has
recently been reconstructed allowing the systems analys is of human metabolic
physiology and pathology. Utilizing high-throughput data, R econ 1 has
recently been tailored to different cells and tissues, including the l iver,
kidney, brain, and alveolar macrophage. These models have shown utility in the
study of systems medicine. However, no integrated analysis between human tiss
ues has been done. RESULTS: To describe tissue-specific functions, Recon 1 was
tailored to describe metabolis m in three human cells: adipocytes,
hepatocytes, and myocytes. These cell-specifi c networks were manually curated
and validated based on known cellular metabolic functions. To study
intercellular interactions, a novel multi-tissue type modelin g approach was
developed to integrate the metabolic functions for the three cell types, and
subsequently used to simulate known integrated metabolic cycles. In ad dition,
the multi-tissue model was used to study diabetes: a pathology with syste mic
properties. High-throughput data was integrated with the network to determine
differential metabolic activity between obese and type II obese gastric bypass
p atients in a whole-body context. CONCLUSION: The multi-tissue type modeling
approach presented provides a platform to study in tegrated metabolic states.
As more cell and tissue-specific models are released, it is critical to
develop a framework in which to study their interdependencies.

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not.

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)

